---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-07-18"
date: 2025-07-19T06:17:07+00:00
link: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/07/19/weekly-recap-20250718
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/vs.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
Claude Code, Claude Flow, and Agent Swarms!



 I have been having all sorts of fun building software leveraging AI -- but that doesn't mean all of it is going smoothly. In this video, I talk about my initial attempts getting started with Claude Flow and agent swarms for writing code!

How To Use Non-Developer Jobs On Your Software Engineering Resume



 Many people get into software engineering once they've already been working full time -- and not all of that work experience is going to be writing code. How can you use your non-coding work experience to stand out on your software engineering resume?

How to Mentor Mid-Level Engineers - Engineering Manager AMA



 When it comes to mentorship, one thing is for sure: one size does NOT fit all. It's also much easier to find opportunities in mentorship when mentees have obvious challenges to work through or goals they want to focus on... but what happens when you don't have ANY of that? How can you mentor mid-level engineers?


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

I'm Fed Up - How Do I Ask My Manager About A Team Change?



 A viewer wrote in to ask about how they can approach talking to their engineering manager about a team change since they're getting fed up with not being able to have the impact they're after. How should they approach it?

If I Started Software Engineering Again What Would I Change?



 A viewer asked what I would change if I could go back and start my software engineering journey all over again. After 15 years of experience in the industry... Here's what I'd do.

Beginner's Guide For Writing TUnit Tests In C#



 Looking to get started with TUnit for your C# tests? Give me 10 minutes and you'll be writing your first TUnit tests and running them in Visual Studio OR the command line!

How Do I Find Mentors As A Junior Software Engineer?



 From the comments, a viewer wanted to know how to go about seeking mentorship -- especially if there aren't necessarily other developers working at the company. Let's dig into it!



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/07/19/weekly-recap-20250718