---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-09-05"
date: 2025-09-06T06:44:30+00:00
link: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/09/06/weekly-recap-20250905
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
Scalable Systems For Swifties and Beyond - Michael Dodsworth of Fanfare



 My guest on the podcast today had me thinking about solving system design problems in totally different ways -- ways that users actually care about.


 Michael Dodsworth of Fanfare walks us through his career journey and how they are weaving in scalability into all levels of the software they're building. They're solving real problems that they're passionate about, and doing it in ways that don't just require throwing more compute and resources at it.


 Thanks very much for the conversation, Michael!

How Copilot Saved My C# Dependency Injection Project From This Bug!



 Let's see how Copilot was able to do when fixing up and testing code for Needlr, which is my C# dependency injection library. Did it solve the issue properly? Did it get good test coverage? Let's see!

I Broke Production. Here's What I Learned...



 Yes, even after 20+ years of writing code and 10+ years of shipping software professionally... I break prod. Here's my embarrassing story of breaking production!

Is This Enough AWS Experience To Land A Job?



 In this resume review, we'll check out this developer's background with AWS experience. Is this enough experience using AWS to land a job? Did they present themselves well with their resume?

Fearlessly Asking Stupid Questions - Principal Engineering Manager AMA



 It's common in software engineering that people get the idea that asking questions makes you look less intelligent. The reality is, we mostly make this up about ourselves and not others. We need to practice asking those stupid questions to break the self-infliction


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

Do You Have A HIGH Tolerance For Bugs In Your Software?



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor was curious about folks who had worked in different domains where there were high and low tolerances for bugs. Sounds funny -- let's discuss!

How To Manage Stress When Leading a Software Development Project



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to understand how software engineers that are leading projects manage their stresss effectively.

Engineering Reorgs Are CRUSHING My Chances Of Promotion!



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to understand how to navigate a manager change and how their promotion chances might be affected.



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
Resume reviews and interview guidance!
Software engineering podcast and livestreams!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/09/06/weekly-recap-20250905