---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-02-21"
date: 2025-02-22T08:11:09+00:00
link: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/02/22/weekly-recap-20250221
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
It's A TRAP: 10 Years Of Experience vs 10 Years Of The SAME Experience



 What's worse than being stuck in the same spot for 10 years?


 Not having any growth. So let's talk about how to get uncomfortable to prevent that.

Am I COOKED?! No Progression As An Outstaffing Developer



 Are developers at outstaffing companies treated differently when it comes to career progression? Let's discuss the challenges of one developer that wrote in with some of their concerns.

Did This Mid-Level Developer NAIL Their Resume? Let's Review It!



 Time for a career change! How did this mid-level engineer do with highlighting their accomplishments? What could be improved on their resume?

Management FORCING Me To Use AI - Which AI Tools For Developers?



 Let's delve into the vast realm of the ever-evolving digital landscape of AI tools that we should use judiciously! You wish ChatGPT wrote that, don't you?


 Based on a Reddit thread, let's see what tools developers are finding helpful (and not)!

What's The SECRET To Bypassing Years Of Experience For Developers?



 A viewer wanted to know if there's a secret to being able to bypass the required years of experience when applying to jobs. Why do we even have years of experience in the first place?!

Impact As A Developer: Visibility To Your Manager - Principal Software Engineering Manager AMA



 It's unfortunate, but there's often a rift between developers and their managers.


 Is there enough visibility into the impact that's being delivered? How can we improve it? And what if my manager is new?!


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

Getting WRECKED When Working In Other Team's Code



 We all know how to navigate our own code bases, mostly, right? But what happens when we need to go work in another team's code? How can we be successful?

What AI Topics Should Senior Developers Focus On?



 So you don't want to switch over to becoming an ML engineer or sell your soul to AI. But still, you'd like to make sure you're not left in the dust.


 What areas of AI could senior developers focus on?

COMPLETELY Overwhelmed: Toxic Culture And Physical Burnout Symptoms



 A software engineer describes their situation of having physical symptoms from overwhelming stress, burnout, and a toxic team culture. At what point is it no longer worth it?

The WRONG Move? Quiet Quitting Software Developer [360 Video]



 A software engineer has already made up their mind -- they're checking out. They're quiet quitting.


 But did they explore their options? Did it have to get to this point?

TOXIC Environment! What Should This Senior Software Engineer Do?



 A senior software developer wrote in to ask for a resume review but also had a bunch of extra context about some work challenges they've been facing. Let's try and analyze what might be going on in their situation!

FORGET The Generic Resume Fluff! Focus On Impact As A Developer!



 Is this resume a bit too fluffy? Let's see if we can identify some opportunities for this senior software engineer to REALLY showcase all of the awesome impactful work that they've done!



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/02/22/weekly-recap-20250221