---
title: "10 Years Of Experience vs 10 Years Of The SAME Experience - Dev Leader Weekly 84"
date: 2025-02-22T13:00:00+00:00
link: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/02/22/10-years-of-experience-vs-10-years-of-the-same-experience-dev-leader-weekly-84
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
TL; DR:

Years of Experience is a "proxy" measure
Consider being T-Shaped
Join the livestream on Monday, February 24th at 7:00 PM Pacific!


10 Years Of Experience vs 10 Years Of The SAME Experience
What's The Obsession With "Years Of Experience"?
If you're job searching right now in tech, you've probably noticed this whole thing where employers are asking for "X years of experience". It might seem frustrating when you're reading the description and thinking "Hey, I can TOTALLY do that!" only to realize that you don't meet the minimum years of experience (YoE).
Asking for YoE isn't anything new. Even when I was first interning and then exploring full time roles between 10 and 15 years ago, this was normal. But there are two things I want to address:

Folks that are new to the industry are likely seeing "entry-level" mixed with "requires some YoE". Is that even entry-level?!
Why the heck are people even asking for YoE in the first place?

I spent some time discussing this the other day on Code Commute, and I had some thoughts:

YoE is only a proxy to try and gauge the effective experience that a candidate has.
There's a LOT of competition and volume of applicants right now... employers can try to filter out candidates by raising the bar on requirements.

Some people didn't like these ideas. But to be clear: I am not saying these are GOOD reasons for these things to happen. I'm simply saying this is why I think these things happen.
But let's dig in a bit deeper. Is YoE even helpful? Personally, I think it could be a general indicator for potential experience. However, I certainly don't think it applies as a universal truth.

Someone with 1 year of experience is very likely not going to have the required experience of a principal engineer.
Someone with 20 years of experience also might not have the required experience of a principal engineer.

Which leads us to another question that was asked on Code Commute:


Stuck In One Spot
10 years is a long time to invest in anything. It's a decent chunk of time. When we think about our careers, there is a lot of progress we could make and a lot of different opportunities for unique experiences along the way of a 10 year journey.
However, let's consider what happens if we get stuck in one spot. And to clarify what I mean, let's assume you're working in a particular domain with a particular tech stack and... you're doing nearly the same type of work for 10 years. What would we expect to happen?
Two things come to mind for me:

You stay at roughly the same level of depth and expertise for the entire duration. You effectively get very complacent doing what you're doing.
OR... you continue to go deeper and deeper. You build up extreme expertise in a very specific area. You use those 10 years to push the limits of your understanding of an area.

In the first case, I think this is the danger zone. I think we want to avoid getting overly complacent so that we're appropriately challenged and getting the opportunity to learn new things. I don't mean to suggest you can't find some level of comfort or joy in your work, or that you must be constantly pushing your limits. However, zero push likely means you won't be advancing very far.
In the second case, this is a much better spot to be in. If you happen to find a domain that you love and want to keep investing into that, it can be a great opportunity for you to build that expertise. You may even find that it's a highly sought after set of skills you build.
But can we do better than extreme focus in a narrow scope? Perhaps -- but that will depend on how we define "better"... So let's continue.
Get Uncomfortable: From I to T
Have you heard of a T-Shaped developer? The concept is about describing the skillset of a developer where the vertical part of the T indicates depth of skill in an area and the horizontal part indicates the breadth of skill across areas.
Generally, being a T-Shaped developer is encouraged because it suggests that you have exposure to a variety of things, but you've also taken the opportunity to "specialize" or build up more experience in a particular area where you'll really shine. And why stop at T-Shaped? We might not have other letters that are as helpful, but perhaps having several verticals where you can go deep on would be helpful.
With that analogy set, we can reflect on the previous section and think of building the expertise in ONE very specific area over 10 years as an "I" shape. Just the vertical part of the T.
... So how do we get the horizontal part?
From my experience: this generally means getting a bit uncomfortable.
What I mean is that by going deeper in a particular area, refining our skills, and building more expertise in that narrow scope, we're most likely going to have a higher degree of comfort doing this. That's because the area remains familiar and we're building on the very relevant and specific experiences that we've already been building up.
But you know what's really uncomfortable for many of us?
Being a newbie all over again.
That means when you start trying to go a bit wider and get a breadth of new experiences, it's generally a bit uncomfortable to feel like you're starting from scratch. Hell, I've talked about this many times on livestreams where I've said it can be scary to get out of your comfort zone.
In my opinion though, it can REALLY work to your benefit to make sure you're getting exposure to different types of things in your career:

Tech stacks
Domains
Sizes of companies
Languages
Front end, back end, etc...
AWS, Azure, GCP
Mobile vs web vs desktop vs...

Wrapping It Up
This post isn't intended to make you panic if you don't feel like you're exploring a variety of things -- it's just to raise awareness. I think this is something to be mindful of when you're considering your career plan and where you want to be headed.
Ideally, at some point before you acquire your first 10 years of experience you can take some steps to ensure it's not the same experience for 10 years on repeat.


Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




As always, thanks so much for your support! I hope you enjoyed this issue, and I'll see you next week.
​Nick “Dev Leader” Cosentino​social@devleader.ca​​Socials:– Blog​– Dev Leader YouTube​– Follow on LinkedIn​– Dev Leader Instagram​​
P.S. If you enjoyed this newsletter, consider sharing it with your fellow developers!

- Link to article: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/02/22/10-years-of-experience-vs-10-years-of-the-same-experience-dev-leader-weekly-84