---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-10-31"
date: 2025-11-01T05:30:08+00:00
link: https://devleader.ca/2025/11/01/weekly-recap-20251031
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
Onboarding SUCKS as a New Developer



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to understand how to navigate joining a team when the onboarding is really difficult. Are they getting enough support?

Acting, Improv, And Software Engineering - Interview With Rita Iglesias



 What do theater, improv, and acting have to do with software engineering?


 I'll be honest: I thought not a whole heck of a lot.


 But when I sat down to talk to Rita Iglesias, I couldn't help but realize how her curiosity, problem-solving, and previous experiences truly enabled her to kick butt at being a software engineer.


 This conversation was AWESOME -- and Rita even stuck around while I experienced a power failure during our call! A legend!


 Thank you so much for the opportunity to chat about your career journey, Rita!

I'm A Staff Engineer and I'm OVERWHELMED



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to understand how to navigate a situation where they're feeling overwhelmed as a staff engineer. How can they get back to a good spot?

College Developer Struggles - Principal Engineering Manager AMA



 So you're a developer in college and you have a million things to juggle... How should you spend your time? Are internships even worth it? What should you be building?


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now, and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

Theme Parks, Bakeries, and G-Code: Samantha’s Unexpected Path Into Software



 In this episode, I talk with Samantha Lopez, whose path into software development is anything but typical -- and that’s exactly what makes it so inspiring. Samantha’s story is a reminder that every job teaches you something valuable. Her big turning point came when she was trained to operate a CNC machine, saw lines of G-code for the first time, and realized she was meant to be in tech.


 We talk about learning to code through 100Devs, overcoming self-doubt, building confidence as a homeschooler turned freelancer, and the power of showing up consistently when things feel impossible.


 Whether you’re just starting out or pivoting mid-career, Samantha’s journey proves that your past experiences can be your biggest asset in tech -- you just have to connect the dots and keep going!

Am I Going Behind My Manager's Back?



 A viewer submitted an anonymous question and wanted to know about navigating a situation where they might be seemingly working around their manager. Their skip level asked for something, should they include their manager too?

How To Use Logging Scopes for Structured Logs in Serilog



 Let's talk about logging scopes when it comes to structured logging in C#! In this video, we'll look at BeginScope, attaching contextual information to our logs, and how we can do this with Serilog.

The Secret To Long Term Career Success They Don't Want You Know About!



 This viewer wanted to ask about my perspective on the importance of networking and if I'd share that perspective with viewers. They feel it's a critical investment long term for their career... what are your thoughts?

Software Architecture: There And Back Again - Interview With Steve Ardalis Smith



 Everyone knows the very best software architecture is Microservices.


 End of discussion. Nothing more to say. Mic drop.


 Steve 'Ardalis' Smith has something to say about this! In fact, he's published courses specifically for people who may have gone down the wrong path and need to work \"backwards\" to a monolithic architecture.


 Unfortunately, it's very common that Microservices are used without fully understanding why there's a benefit and what the trade-offs are. Fortunately, we're all getting better at recognizing that Microservices are not a one-size-fits all solution.


 A huge thank you to Steve for this conversation!



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
Resume reviews and interview guidance!
Software engineering podcast and livestreams!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://devleader.ca/2025/11/01/weekly-recap-20251031