---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-08-01"
date: 2025-08-02T06:31:55+00:00
link: https://devleader.ca/2025/08/02/weekly-recap-20250801
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
Upcoming Channel Changes 👀👀



If you watch my YouTube channels, this is an important message about how my content will be organized going forward.

My Engineering Role Feels Like Game of Thrones!



 A redditor from the ExperiencedDevs subreddit wrote that they feel like they are now caught up in political drama after a conversation with their manager. Are they about to be responsible for someone getting let go?! Let's discuss.

I Fear For My Job Because I Can Never Meet Sprint Commitments



 From the comments, this viewer wanted some advice on their scenario: It seems like sprint commitments are never realistic, and they're constantly worried that their job is on the line because of it. What are their options here?

How Can I Get Employers To Take A Chance On Me As A Developer?



 Someone had written in on LinkedIn about a post I made talking about not having to know everything to be a good software engineer. I shared many examples in my career where I was hired because of other reasons, and I was put into a situation where I knew very little. Is there anything we can learn from this though?

Finding Mentors As A Junior Software Engineer - Engineering Manager AMA



 So you're a junior engineer and you keep hearing that you need to find a mentor to be successful. But is that true? How do you approach finding a mentor? Are there other ways to grow without directly having a formal mentor?


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

Catching Up - F1 Movie, Hasan Habib, & Visit w/ In-Laws!



 This past week has been a bit crazy for me, but there are some big changes coming up! Here's a little recap and visibility into what's next.

The AI Doom Fatigue Cycle



 Blah blah, AI is coming for your job, blah blah. What else is there going on?

Developer Side Projects: How Does AI Fit Into The Mix?



 So you're a developer and you heard you need to have some side projects... What should you focus on, and how does AI fit into this now?

It Turns Out Code Is NOT The Bottleneck For Software Development?!



 Shocking news alert!! Code is NOT the bottleneck when it comes to building software! But in all seriousness, I thought this was a great topic from Reddit to go over since different viewers might have different thoughts.

Can You Really Go Back to Coding After Being a Manager?



 From ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to know if they are out of luck if they want to go back to a developer role. Let's discuss!



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
Resume reviews and interview guidance!
Software engineering podcast and livestreams!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://devleader.ca/2025/08/02/weekly-recap-20250801