---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-08-08"
date: 2025-08-09T06:32:33+00:00
link: https://devleader.ca/2025/08/09/weekly-recap-20250808
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
Should You Build Side Projects To Have Complex Things For Your Resume?



 From ExperiencedDevs, this Redditor wanted to know if they should build side projects to show complexity on their resume. Well... Kinda sorta. Let's discuss!

Dealing With BRAIN FOG As A Software Developer



 From ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to know if and how others deal with brain fog as developers. I share some of my thoughts on how to keep your mind FRESH!

WHO CARES About All These Numbers On Resumes?! (Hint: YOU Should)



 From ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to know why all these resumes have numbers and impact statements. Surely it's just junk, right? Let's talk it through...

How To Setup Claude Flow To Run Agent Swarms! I CAN'T BELIEVE IT!



 This tutorial provides instructions on setting up Claude Flow, an agentic swarm layer built on top of Claude Code, on a Windows machine using PowerShell. And I honestly can't believe the hive mind built this application on the first try.

This Bot Tricked Me Into A Video Response on Resumes...



 I've had to ban this bot from commenting on my channels, BUT... Before I caught on, I made this video response on using AI to generate resume content. So enjoy!

If we only code 20% of the time, how do we get better?



 An interesting question from the comments! Let's discuss how time is spent in software engineering and how we can work on our craft.

What Is The Best Way To Get Up To Speed On A New Project As A Senior Developer?



 A great question from the comments! Let's discuss how to approach getting up to speed on a new project or a new team as a senior software engineer.



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
Resume reviews and interview guidance!
Software engineering podcast and livestreams!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://devleader.ca/2025/08/09/weekly-recap-20250808