---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-03-07"
date: 2025-03-08T04:10:33+00:00
link: https://devleader.ca/2025/03/08/weekly-recap-20250307
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
NO MENTORSHIP For Developers At Startups?! [360 Video]



 A viewer wrote in to ask if it's a concern that they don't have formal mentorship opportunities at the startup they're at. Is this normal? What should they do about it?

How to Implement the Repository Pattern in C# Using Dapper and SQLite



 In this video, we'll see a simple implementation of a repository pattern using Dapper! We can directly swap out the Entity Framework Core repository pattern in favor of this one!

Senior Developer Means Coding... Less?! - Engineering Manager AMA



 As you gain experience as an IC, you move from junior, to mid-level, to senior... and beyond. But is it true what some say? Will you ACTUALLY spend less time coding?!


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

Leadership Focus: Senior Software Engineer and Tech Lead Roles



 A viewer wrote in and wanted to understand better how they can focus on standing out from the perspective of leadership. How can they demonstrate such qualities to help them work towards senior or tech lead roles?

Can I Break Into Tech As A Developer With This Resume?



 It can be really tricky to craft a meaningful resume without prior work experience. How might you approach this if you're trying to break into your first developer job?


 Let's discuss and review a submitted resume!

My Manager REFUSES To Give Me Feedback As A Software Engineer!



 Feedback is incredibly important to be able to grow and improve -- whether that's in our coding abilities or our careers in general.


 What are you supposed to do when your manager refuses to give you feedback?

NO STRUCTURE At Startups For Software Developers?!



 Is it true that software startups are the wild west for developers? No career guidance, no process, no structure, no... anything at all?!


 Let's discuss.

Adding an IMemoryCache to EF Core Repository Pattern



 In prior videos, we wrapped a repository pattern around our EF Core calls -- and yes, this drives some people nuts. In this video, we'll look at enhancing our repository by adding a cache with IMemoryCache!

LEAVE ME ALONE! Moving On From A Software Project



 You've worked hard on a project, but you've moved onto other things now. Or perhaps your product or service was reassigned to another team for ownership.


 ... They keep coming to you for help though! What should you do?

Early In Career Software Engineers: Live Panel Recap



 I had the pleasure of speaking at a live event for early in career software engineers and I'd love to tell you all about it!



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://devleader.ca/2025/03/08/weekly-recap-20250307