---
title: "Weekly Recap - 2025-09-19"
date: 2025-09-20T05:40:18+00:00
link: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/09/20/weekly-recap-20250919
showShare: false
showReadTime: false
thumbnail: images/dotnet.png
tags: ["devleader.ca"]
---
Like what you read or watched from the recap? I'd love if you helped share on Reddit or Daily.dev so others can see!

Weekly Recap
I'm Speaking at Commit Your Code Conference in Dallas!



 Excited to be travelling back down to Dallas to speak, and this time, it's at Commit Your Code! Here's what I'm going to be talking about...

The Other Side of Software Engineering Interviews - Principal Engineering Manager AMA



 For the most part, I think software engineering interviews are broken. A lot of what is asked in typical software engineering interviews doesn't represent how a candidate will be set up to work in the role they're entering... so why do we do it? I'll share with you some of my strategies as an interviewer.


 As with all livestreams, I'm looking forward to answering YOUR questions! So join me live and ask in the chat, or you can comment now and I can try to get it answered while I stream.

These Junior Developers SUCK! They Just Don't Understand My Code!



 From ExperiencedDevs, this Redditor wanted to get some thoughts on junior developers on pull requests. Sounds like there are some skill gaps, so how can we improve this?

Should I Attend Conferences as an Aspiring Developer?



 A viewer had a question about getting the most out of conferences as an aspiring software developer. Is it even worth it to go? What should you focus on?

These Developers GATEKEEP Code Reviews!



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, let's talk through how to deal with overly pedantic gatekeepers on code reviews! Is there a solution?

Do These Engineers Pass The Vibe Check?



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to know how others approach hiring software engineers who don't pass the vibe check. Should you hire them when the vibes are not immaculate?

Is This Software Engineering Promotion Even Worth It?



 From the ExperiencedDevs subreddit, this Redditor wanted to know how to approach their promotion project -- is it even worth it for them to pursue?



Join me and other software engineers in the  private Discord community!
Resume reviews and interview guidance!
Software engineering podcast and livestreams!
My Code Commute vlogs are on YouTube!
All of my weekly vlogs are on YouTube!
Remember to check out my courses, including this awesome discounted bundle for C# developers:







Get this DISCOUNTED course bundle NOW!




- Link to article: https://www.devleader.ca/2025/09/20/weekly-recap-20250919